Welcome back.
As we discussed earlier we would want the currency calculation service to be calling the currency exchange service the
currency exchange we will be returning the exchange value.
So if I want to convert USD to INR how much is the exchange value.
So that's the thing with the currency exchange service.
Would determine in the currency calculation service would be using the currency exchange.
service to determine the value of one currency in another currency.
How much is it.
Fifty five dollars and hundred euros worth.
In terms of rupees.
That's the kind of work the currency calculation.
service would be doing one of the things that we would be doing at a later point.
It will create multiple instances of currency exchange service.
Right now we have one instance running on 8000 but at a later point in then what we'll do is we'll run one
instance on 8000 another instance on eight thousand one and eight thousand two and so on.
And we would want the currency calculation  service to be talking to all these three instances and we would want
to be able to determine which instance of the currency exchange service that the currency calculation
service is talking to.
And to be able to determine that what we'll do is we'll use the port as a distinguishing factor.
So from every service in the currency exchange service we will return the port back so that we know which server
is responding back.
Typically there's not really a good practice I am changing the service definition to accommodate for the
fact that I would want to send the port.
But as far as you are learning is concerned this is a very good thing.
It will make it very clear as to which server your response is coming back from in this step we will add
a port to the currency exchange service response.
So to be able to hold the port value what I'll do is I'll have a new variable created in here so I'll say private
a port is typically int so.
I'll say Int port and I'll not add to the constructor but I'll create a greater and setter for it so generate getters and setters.
For port I would want both of them to be generated.
We have get port and set port.
I don't want them down here.
I'll add them to the end.
Now I can set the port in here so I can say I can take this into the variable exchange.
value alt shift l.
Extract local variables.
I can say exchange value dot set port and said the port for now we know it's running 8000 so I can
hard code it in.
But the best practice is to pick up the port from the environment.
Spring boot provide something called environment from which we can actually get the port on which the
application is running.
So let's make use of that.
So I call this environment environment let's make this.
private.
Let's also make this auto wired let's try and organize the imports.
I would want to use Spring Framework code environment that's the interface I want to make use
of and inside the environment there is a variable inside.
The environment I would need to get a property get property and the name of the property is local dot
server dot port.
Thing is this would return us string value back we created port as an integer value.
So I would need to parse it.
So integer dot parse int and the parse the port value that's it let's formate the code a little bit so that we can clearly see what's happening
and said Poor down here.
So what we're doing is we are taking the exchange value setting the port we have picking port from environment
local server port and returning the exchange value back.
Now when I hit server again let's refresh.
And now you're seeing Port eight thousand come in.
One of the things that we can do right now is I can try and run this in a different port.
How do I run the currency exchange application on a different port.
One of the ways is I can change the application dot properties right I can use the application dot properties
and say 8000 or I can take 8001 which port I would want to run it on but I would want let's say
Two instances of currency exchange service running at the same time.
How do I do that.
If I'm depending on the server port configuration which is present in here.
I'll not be able to do that.
So I would want to be able to externally set the server port.
How do I do that.
Let's now try and run the currency exchange service on port eight thousand one.
How do we do that.
I can say right click run as go down to the bottom and click the run configurations.
The other way you can get down there is by saying over here click it and say run configurations over here we already
have a simple configuration for the currency service exchange service application.
This is using the default port the default port is 8000 so I'll rename this.
So this is currencies exchange service application which is running on eight thousand.
So I'm giving that name to it apply and I would right click it and say duplicate.
So I'm duplicating the configuration and I would want this to run the application on eight thousand
one.
So if I run this right now it would run on port 80.
However I would want to run this on port eight thousand one how do I do that.
I can do that by passing a VM argument called server dot port is equal to eight thousand one.
What ever value we are passing in VM argument in here will override the application dot properties configuration.
So the eight thousand one will be used as the port to run this application and what I will do is apply.
So now we have eight thousand one.
And now I can say run this would launch up another instance of the currency exchange service.
However the port on which this would be launched is eight thousand one.
Now I can hit both the services right now so local localhost 8000 it would return port.
eight thousand.
However if I hit localhost eight thousand one let's see what would happen.
You can see that the port is return back has eight thousand one.
So basically what we have done in this step is we added port to our service response from now on we'll
use this port to find out which instance of the currency exchange service we are getting a response
from.
We now have two instances of currency exchange applications running on port eight thousand and eight thousand one.
until the next step buy bye.